The Kindred presentation framework seeks to reduce repetition as much as possible. Whereas in modern applications it is typical to describe the same object in three or seven different places (as with the LAMP stack: once in the SQL schema, twice in PHP—once for the form and once for the presentation—, then twice in HTML and twice in javascript), the Kindred renderer lets you describe each object *once* in plain JSON, and creates reactive representations from that. [**TODO**: Though not covered here, this same object can be both renderered and placed in Kindred's peer-to-peer distribution system with a single call.]

<div class="sidenote-wrapper"><div class="sidenote">
Among those I've used, the web framework that has come closest to eliminating the need for redundant object descriptions is [Meteor](meteor.com). Here, a typical object only has to be described three times—twice in templates and once to link it to the database.
</div></div> 

Our framework strives to be almost invisible. It allows us to describe an object *once* as we would natually describe it in javascript, and then feed it to different renderers for different uses. Once an object is defined, we can present a form to edit it, then render a polished presentation of it with only two more lines of code. Creating different presentations is no longer a matter of writing different html templates, but of finding or creating the right renderer for the situation. 

Renderers translate objects to dom, with special conditions for different keywords and field types. To demonstrate, suppose we define an object:

```javascript
var our_obj = {
    field: {
        child: {
            text: "clicked: ",
        }
    }
}
```

When we call `Kindred.present(our_obj, parent_element)`, Kindred's default renderer will translate `our_obj` into:

```html
<div class="field">
   <div class="child">
       <span class="text">clicked: </span>
   </div> 
</div>
```

Basically, for every javascript object, it will create a new `div` element using the field name as the element's class. It then recursively renders any of the object's children inside that element. When it reaches a string, it uses a `span` element instead. The specifics of this process can be changed by defining new renderers, but the core behavior is recursive transalation of objects into html.

We can use *keywords* to create more advanced presentations. For example, if we wanted the `child` field to be represented as a `p` element instead of a `div`, we can set the `html` keyword:

```javascript
our_obj.field.child.html = "p";
```

If we were to call `Kindred.present(our_obj)` now, our html would instead be:

```html
<div class="field">
   <p class="child">
       <span class="text">clicked: </span>
   </p> 
</div>
```

To add interactivity, we can use event keywords like `onclick`:

```javascript
our_obj.field.onclick = function(e) {
    this.field.child.text += "✓";
}
```

Here, we're taking advantage of Kindred's reactivity: any changes made to `our_obj` (referenced by `this`) are immediately re-presented in their corresponding html elements. Thus, every time the element is clicked, we append a check mark to whatever text is already there. We can similarly use the `onkeydown` and `onmouseover` event keywords (and all the other [standard mouse and keyboard ones](http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/dom_obj_event.asp)). [TODO: extend support to other events, maybe even all of them!]

**Note:** changes to keyword fields themselves are *not* reactive. [TODO: make these reactive if simplicity-helpfulness ratio is right.] [TODO:make changes to arrays reactive.] [TODO: Objects can be passed to multiple presentations, and will be reactive for all of them.]

We can also update `our_obj` with outside code. Suppose that after `our_obj` has already been presented, we were to call:

```javascript
our_obj.field.child.text = "something else";
```

The content of our `span.text` element would then be set to "something else".

There are also a few default keywords to manipulate styles:

```javascript
// apply the styles to a single element
our_obj.field.style = { backgroundColor: #333 };

// add a css rule with the field name as the selector
our_obj.field.css = "color: #fafafa;";

// add css rules with more detailed selectors
our_obj.field.css_of = {
    p: "font-size: 1.1em; padding: 40px;",
    "span.text": "font-weight: bold;",
};

```

When everything's put together, `Kindred.present(our_obj, example_div)` yields:

<div id="example1"></div>

Of course, the default behavior isn't ideal for every use case. *Ideally*, we only define the data model we want in our object, and then delegate presentation and behavior to our renderer. Each renderer defines a few key components:

**preprocess**: a function applied to each object before it passes through the rest of the renderer. This can be used to, for example, add `label` fields to an object and make corresponding `input` fields. To define a `preprocess()` function for a `custom_renderer` object, we would declare:

```javascript
custom_renderer.preprocess = function(obj) {
    // ...
    // create a new_object out of obj
    // ...
    return new_object;
};
```

[TODO: explore all potential ways *preprocess()* can break reactivity, then restrain it or destroy it.]

**keywords**: special field names that trigger functions whenever the renderer encounters them. These can be used to set attributes of the parent object or add new arrangments of elements based on complex input. Keyword functions are defined under the `of` field. They are called *instead* of the default render path, meaning they will not create new html elements (unless specified in the function itself). To define keywords, we can write:

```javascript
custom_renderer.of = {
    keyword: function(parent_element, value, context) {
        // parent_element refers to the containing element

        // value is the value of the keyword field

        // context refers to the *original* object that
        // was passed to Kindred.present(), before it
        // was transformed by the preprocess() method
    },

    // example of one of the default keyword functions
    innerHTML: function(parent_element, html, context) {
        parent_element.innerHTML = html;
    },
};
``` 

**type handlers**: functions to deal with different types. When `custom_renderer` encounters a value of type `string`, it will call the function `custom_renderer.string` as it would a keyword function, with parameters `(parent_element, value, context)`. Similarly for other types like `boolean`, `function`, and `number`. To define a type handler, we would write:

```javascript
custom_renderer.string = function(elem, str, context) {
    // will render strings furiously
    elem.innerHTML = str.toUpperCase();
};
```

**type html**: default html tag for each type. These can be defined as follows:

```javascript
custom_renderer.html_for = {
    string: "p",
    number: "span",
    function: "canvas",
};
```

Once it's been defined, your custom renderer can be used by calling:


```javascript
// tell Kindred there's a new render mode called "custom_mode"
Kindred.register("custom_mode", custom_renderer);

// use this render mode until use() is called again
Kindred.use("custom_mode");

// alternatively, the render mode can be passed as an option to present()
Kindred.present(our_obj, some_element, {mode:"custom_mode"});
```

Because they are simply objects, renderer descriptions are easily overriden and extended, so if someone defines a renderer that *almost* does what you want, you can get the desired behavior by changing only a few fields.

Where keywords and type handlers are not explicitly defined, the renderer will fall back on Kindred's default.

<div style="color:#666">
**NOTE:** This stuff will likely all be wrapped up into the templating system.<br/>

TODO: Object **bases** can be used in conjunction with the *preprocess()* method. A **base** is essentially a set of default fields that get used when they are undefined in the object being presented. For example, if the renderer contains:

```javascript
custom_renderer.base = {
    base1: {
        style: {
            backgroundColor: "red",
        }
        html: "p",
    },
}
```

Then any object that has a field **base**:"base1" will gain these fields prior to being rendered.

</div>

